# Jobs-Diagnostic
Repository of tools on Jobs Diagnostics.

# What is a Jobs Diagnostic? 
A jobs diagnostic identifies the core jobs challenges of a country at the macro, worker, and firm level. The diagnostic identifies symptoms, interprets these symptoms, and prioritizes a set of jobs challenges. The central enquiry of the jobs diagnostic is into how a country’s jobs outcomes have changed over time, and specifically, how (and if) people have transitioned into new jobs. Emphasis is placed on how the profile of jobs in the economy is changing, and which types of individuals (by age, gender, education, rural versus urban) get the jobs. It asks structured questions to identify a comprehensive set of symptoms from data, which are then compared to “normal” results from other countries. A more detailed introduction as well as cross-country findings from analysis conducted by World Bank staff working on Jobs Diagnostics can be found [here](https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/30594)

# What can I find in this GitHub? 
This GitHub features three tools that were developed by the Job's Group in the World Bakn to faciliate Jobs Diagnostics: 
- The Jobs Diagnostic Labor Tool (JDLT) support the analysis of a country’s labor market by exploring labor force surveys and providing standardized outputs. The outputs of the tool present key labor market information ranging from labor force participation rates, types of employment, and unemployment to labor market outcomes for different population groups. The populations groups are automatically disaggregated by gender, area, age, and education. The tool presents its results through indicators, figures, and regression tables, to better understand how a country's economy affects employment levels and workers. The results of the analysis are presented for each survey and over time in case of several surveys. A benchmarking between surveys from different countries is also possible. 
- The Global JObs INdicators Database (JOIN) forms part of the World Bank Group’s DataBank and reports national level jobs indicators including population specific disaggregation (e.g. by gender, age group, area, and education).  It gives users a basic understanding of a county’s labor market and its development over time depending on survey availability.
- The Excel-based JOIN benchmarking tool allows for jobs indicator comparisons and empowers users to customize the analysis in Excel without the need of programming and working with micro-data. 
- The Jobs Diagnostic Labor Tool  supports the analysis of a country’s labor market by exploring labor force surveys and providing standardized outputs. It gives the users full flexibility in conducting more comprehensive analysis using micro-data. The tool provides a set of automatically generated standard outputs that are structured along the questions of the Jobs Diagnostic guided enquiry. Users can then follow up on these outputs and further tailor the analysis to their specific questions and needs. 
